
- What is SSMS? 
  SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) is an integrated environment for managing any SQL infrastructure. Use SSMS to access, 
  configure, manage, administer, and develop all components of SQL Server, Azure SQL Database , Azure SQL Managed Instance, 
  SQL Server on Azure VM, and Azure Synapse Analytics. SSMS provides a single comprehensive utility that combines a broad 
  group of graphical tools with many rich script editors to provide access to SQL Server for developers and database administrators 
  of all skill levels.

- SQL Server Management Studio components
  * Use Object Explorer to view and manage all of the objects in one or more instances of SQL Server.	 
  * Use Template Explorer to build and manage files of boilerplate text that you use to speed the 
    development of queries and scripts.	 
  * Use the deprecated Solution Explorer to build projects used to manage administration items such as 
    scripts and queries. 
  * Use the visual design tools included in Management Studio to build queries, tables, and diagram databases.	 
  * Use the Management Studio language editors to interactively build and debug queries and scripts with Query and Text Editors

- Logging on to Database (On-Primises)
  You must provide the correct credentials to access your database
  * Server Name: . 
    -- Note: Which means 'on this pc'
  * Authentication: Windows Authentication -> This means your authenticating from your computers login
    -- Note: There are many kinds of authentication types. Depending on the database your connected to you may have to use the 
	       one of the other types, but they will require a User Name & Password to access. 
    
 ******* EB After this section you'll fill this out. Use the structure i have in all these documents. Remember be detailed ******

- Create a Database
  What are the rules and naming conventions?
  In creating a database we have to be precise in naming the whole database.
  Being short and precise will make it easy for us to diffrentiate one databse from the other.
  The name can contain letters a-z,all characters like underscore(_),brackets(),parenthesis{},etc...
  The first letter of the database(DB) should in a upper case and the rest will be in lower case.
  After naming the Data Base we shall end it with DB, with no space in between.
 Example :- ReservationDB
            AkluBakeryDB
            CrewsDB  
  What are the steps?
  In creating a DB we follow the following steps

STEP 1) Open our SQL SERVER MANAGEMENT STUDIO (SSMS)
STEP 2) we connect to our server which is on premise.
STEP 3) we go to our Object Explorer (which is on the left side of our screen) and right click the (+) button on the 
	Databases folder to show existing databases if any.
STEP 4) after right clicking the database folder we will get a dialogue box with options of New Database..., we click on that option.
STEP 5) A new page will appear on the screen with the cursour on the Databse Name.
STEP 6) After the database is given a name in the "Owner" textbox underneith you make the owner sa. This ensures full access to the database. 
        "sa" stands for Server Administrator.
STEP 7) After naming our database short and precisely we click on the OK button on the right bottom of our new opened up screen. 

- Creating a Table

 What are the rules and naming conventions? 

 In naming tables we have to be extra carefull ,because when we quiery to find results the tables are the main source of data.
 We can use alphabets A-Z,characters like (_),() and etc...
 We can use both singular and plurar conventions. I prefer to use plurar names and nounes in naming my tables.
 Example- Ratings, Expenses,Restaurants ,Products etc...
 If there is a need to use more than 1 word to describe what is in the table, DO IT. 
 Example  In the 'RestaurantCuisines' table we cant only use 'Restauant' because we already have a table named Restaurant in our 
 DB, the same goes for cuisines. Naming it either of the two wouldnt clearly describe what is in the table.'RestasurantCuisines' 
 is the right and correct way for naming this table.
 
 What are the steps? 

 In creating TABLES we use the following steps

STEP 1) We first go to our explorer and click on our databse which was created as xxxxxDB and click on the plus(+) sign.
STEP 2) After we clicked the plus sign there will be a drop down of Database Diagrams,Tables,views,External Resources etc..,we go 
to the tables folder and Right Click on the plus (+) sign.
STEP 3) After the right click we will get an options of New, Filter etc..., we go to New --then click on New Table... 
STEP 4) After we wait for the loading to stop we get a new screen next to our explorer with Coloumn Name, Data Type AND Allow Nulls.
STEP 5) NOW we fill our datas as we want with the apporpraite naming conventions and data types.
  
  What is a Primary Key (PK), How do you set it, And what is it used for.

  Primary Keys uniquely identfies each record in a table. Primary Keys must contain unique values and cannot contain Null VALUES.
  A table can have only 1 primary key.
  A DB must have a primary key for options to INSERT,UPDATE,DELETE,JOIN etc..

 SEETING UP PRIMARY KEY 

 Setting up primary key is preety much easy what we have to do is we go to our coloumns in our already created table 
 and choose the data we want to set as primary key and go to the right side of the field and RIGHT CLICK on it. we will then get option of 
 SET PRIMARY KEY, we click on it and where done.
 After seeting up our primary key we will find a key sign before the field selected as Primary key.
 
  What are the primary data types and give examples of what data type is used for what type of data:
    Example:
    -> nvarchar(50) : This is used with data that is text. The parentheses denotes the maximum number of charaters this 
                      column can have.

    -> int :  This is used with data that is numbers. examples are XxxxID, Age, Weight etc...
     
    -> money : This is used with data that is price. Price of any product Example cars,bread,beer anything that has price uses this data type.
     
    -> text : This is used with letters. Anything Thats letters from a-z. Example Name, Last Name etc...

    -> bit :  This is used with a YES OR NO answers. bit is only true or false. Examples are Is Active, Stock Availability.
 	      If you allow nulls, then that's three values. true (1), false (0), null. What does null indicate with a column being called InActive. 
              They either are or not. Just like a order. Is it IsComplete? thats a yes or no. You can't have a null order

- Creating Relationships

  What are the rules to relationships?

The relationship between tables is simple, what we have to do is first relate the tables using deep thourough and thinking. 
 Example Hotels table have a relationship with reservations, reservations with restaurantID.

   DB relationships means how the data in one table is related to the data in another table. 
  In RDBMS the term 'Relational' refers to the tables with relations. Relationships between two tables are created using keys.
 There are 3 types of relationships in database
 1) ONE TO ONE RELATIONSHIP
 2) ONE TO MANY OR MANY TO ONE RELATIONSHIP
 3) MANY TO MANY RELATIONSHP
   
  How to do you create relationships.

 In creating relationship among tables we firat fill the coloumns with datas. 
 In both tables we will have to have a data  that exist in both tables so that one table relates with the other. 
 REMINDER BOTH OF THE DATAS IN THE TWO DIFFRENT TABLES MUST HAVE AN ID SO THAT THE FIRST WILL BE PRIMARY KEY AND THE SECOND BE FORIEGN KEY. 
 
  What's a Foreign Key (FK)

  A foreign key is a coloumn in a relational database table that provides a link between two diffrent tables. 
  A foriegn key serves to refrence the primary key of another existing table. 
  The coloumn acting as a foriegn key must have a corresponding value linked table.

  What are the steps to creating a relationship?

In creating a relationship we follow the follwing steps.

 STEP 1) After setting a primary key using the above stated steps(HOW TO CREATE A PRIMARY KEY) we go to our second table,
        where we want to create relatinship. REMINDER (IN THE SECOND TABLE WHERE WE WANT A RELATIONSHIP TO EXIST
   WE MUST HAVE A COLOUMN IN THE FIRST TABLE WITH THE SAME COLOUMN ID)
 STEP 2) After we made sure there is same coloumn ID IN BOTH TABLES we the go the second table  right field of the coloumn ID and RIGHT CLICK on it, 
 we then get an options like set primary key, insert coloumn,delete coloumn, and relationships with an image of 2 screens in a one line link.
 STEP 3) we the Click on the relationships options and a new screen will appear in front of us .
 STEP 4) On the new appeared screen there will be options of ADD AND DELETE on the left bottom of the screen.
 STEP 5) We click on the ADD button and there will options on the right side of the screen stating General in BOLD letters. 
 after we see the general in bold letters we will go down to tables and specfications and click on it .
 STEP 6) After we click on the table and specfications options we will get 3 dots (...) on the same line of tables and specfications.
 STEP 7) Onwards clicking the 3 dots (...) we will get another dialogue box with relationship name, primary key table and foriegn key table.
 STEP 8) Now we must be carefull and see the link what we want to establish.
 we first go the primary key option and make sure the primary table and key are correct. 
 STEP 9) After that we go to the foriehn key table and see whether the second table we want to
 relate is correct and if so we go to the dialogue box underneath it and change it to the coloumnID we want to be related with.

- How do you execute a Query statement

After we  type our query on the right side of our explorer, we go to the toolbar of our mysql and click Execute which is located next 
to our DB name above our explorer on the right side of oue screen.

- How do you insert data (only using ssms not scripts, scripts are covered in your 'Basics of SQL Queries' file)

 We first go to our DB where we want to update and then click on the plus sign to get our tables , 
 then after we get our tables we right click on it ,there will be an option of EDIT TOP 200 ROWS. after clicking on EDIT TOP 200 ROWS 
AUTOMATICALLY a screen will appear on the right side of our mysql screen with the datas that have been inserted.
- How do you delete and update data

we follow the same steps as before in the insert data but instead of going to EDIT TOP 200 ROWS we go to Script table as, 
the options of create, update, insert will appear. then we will choose what we want and set the condtions already set by mysql.

- How do you save your sql queries and what are the files extentions for a sql query. Example: this file is a .txt file extention.

 After completion of our queries we would want to save our progress so what we do is hold the control(Ctrl) and S buttons in short OR
 we can go to the toolbar in our mysql and look for a floopy disk sign and just click on it, 
then an options will be come just as we are saving any ordinary word file we will choose where we want to be safed and click ok. 
my advice is to save to my docs-github (if availabe) 
 The file extentions after we saved will be .sql

